# Cosmos companion repository

This repository serves as a companion to the eBook:

- [Practical Guide: Orchestrating dbt with Apache Airflow® with Cosmos](https://www.astronomer.io/ebooks/orchestrating-dbt-with-airflow-using-cosmos)

## How to run this repository

1. Fork this repository
2. Clone the forked repository to your local machine
3. Make sure you have the [Astro CLI](https://www.astronomer.io/docs/astro/cli/overview) installed and are at least on version 1.34.0 to be able to run this Airflow 3 based project.
4. Create a copy of the `.env_example` file and name it `.env`, this file contains environment variables. If you'd like to run dags using other backends then Postgres or Spark, you will need to updated the [connections](https://www.astronomer.io/docs/learn/connections) in this file with your values, for example to connect to a Snowflake instance. 
5. In the root of the project, run astro dev start to start the project locally.
This command will spin up 8 containers on your machine, using Docker or Podman. 5 containers that run Airflow:

    - Postgres: Airflow's Metadata Database
    - API Server: The Airflow component responsible for rendering the Airflow UI and serving 3 APIs, one of which is needed for task code to interact with the Airflow metadata database.
    - Scheduler: The Airflow component responsible for monitoring and triggering tasks
    - Dag processor: The Airflow component responsible for parsing dags.
    - Triggerer: The Airflow component responsible for triggering deferred tasks

    As well as 3 additional containers defined in the [docker-compose.override.yml](docker-compose.override.yml) file to test the dags against:

    - Spark Master and Worker: Spark containers to run the dags `example_DbtDag_spark` and `example_DbtTaskGroup_spark` dags. 
    - Postgres: A postgres database that most of the dag example can be tested with locally.

    The connections to the Spark and Postgres containers are listed in the `.env_example` file and will be automatically set up if you created a `.env` file with the same content.

6. You can now access the Airflow UI at `http://localhost:8080` and run the dags. All dags that are tagged with `out-of-the-box` are ready to run without further setup.

## Contents

This repository contains 26 dags. 

- [advanced_examples](dags/advanced_examples): 8 dags that showcase more advanced features of Cosmos.
    - [example_granular_task_dependencies_DbtDag](dags/advanced_examples/example_granular_task_dependencies_DbtDag.py): This dag shows how to set dependencies between tasks outside of the dbt project and individual tasks inside the dbt project rendered with Cosmos when using `DbtDag`.
    - [example_granular_task_dependencies_DbtTaskGroup](dags/advanced_examples/example_granular_task_dependencies_DbtTaskGroup.py): This dag shows how to set dependencies between tasks outside of the dbt project and individual tasks inside the dbt project rendered with Cosmos when using `DbtTaskGroup`.
    - [example_inject_dbt_vars](dags/advanced_examples/example_inject_dbt_vars.py): This dag shows how to inject dbt vars at runtime into the dbt project.
    - [example_reduce_granularity](dags/advanced_examples/example_reduce_granularity.py): This dag shows how to reduce the granularity of the dbt project by running parts of it with the `DbtBuildLocalOperator`.
    - [example_use_profiles_yml](dags/advanced_examples/example_use_profiles_yml.py): This dag shows how to use a profiles.yml file instead of a `ProfileMapping` and Airflow connection.
    - [example_dbt_docs](dags/advanced_examples/example_dbt_docs.py): This dag shows how to use the dbt docs feature in Airflow 2 (not available in Airflow 3 at the time of writing).
    - [cosmos_assets](dags/advanced_examples/cosmos_assets.py): This dag shows how to schedule downstream dags based on asset events automatically generated by Cosmos.
    - [example_async_dbt_project](dags/advanced_examples/example_async.py): This dag shows how to use the `async` execution mode for a Cosmos dbt project with BigQuery. 

- [basic_examples_per_dwh](dags/basic_examples_per_dwh): 12 dags that showcase the basic use of Cosmos with different data warehouses.
    - [example_DbtDag_duckdb](dags/basic_examples_per_dwh/examples_DbtDag/example_DbtDag_duckdb.py): This dag shows how to use Cosmos with DuckDB.
    - [example_DbtDag_postgres](dags/basic_examples_per_dwh/examples_DbtDag/example_DbtDag_postgres.py): This dag shows how to use Cosmos with Postgres.
    - [example_DbtDag_spark](dags/basic_examples_per_dwh/examples_DbtDag/example_DbtDag_spark.py): This dag shows how to use Cosmos with Spark.
    - [example_DbtDag_snowflake](dags/basic_examples_per_dwh/examples_DbtDag/example_DbtDag_snowflake.py): This dag shows how to use Cosmos with Snowflake.
    - [example_DbtDag_databricks](dags/basic_examples_per_dwh/examples_DbtDag/example_DbtDag_databricks.py): This dag shows how to use Cosmos with Databricks.
    - [example_DbtDag_bigquery](dags/basic_examples_per_dwh/examples_DbtDag/example_DbtDag_bigquery.py): This dag shows how to use Cosmos with BigQuery.
    - [example_DbtDag_databricks](dags/basic_examples_per_dwh/examples_DbtDag/example_DbtDag_databricks.py): This dag shows how to use Cosmos with Databricks.
    - [example_DbtTaskGroup_duckdb](dags/basic_examples_per_dwh/examples_DbtTaskGroup/example_DbtTaskGroup_duckdb.py): This dag shows how to use Cosmos with DuckDB.
    - [example_DbtTaskGroup_postgres](dags/basic_examples_per_dwh/examples_DbtTaskGroup/example_DbtTaskGroup_postgres.py): This dag shows how to use Cosmos with Postgres.
    - [example_DbtTaskGroup_spark](dags/basic_examples_per_dwh/examples_DbtTaskGroup/example_DbtTaskGroup_spark.py): This dag shows how to use Cosmos with Spark.
    - [example_DbtTaskGroup_snowflake](dags/basic_examples_per_dwh/examples_DbtTaskGroup/example_DbtTaskGroup_snowflake.py): This dag shows how to use Cosmos with Snowflake.
    - [example_DbtTaskGroup_databricks](dags/basic_examples_per_dwh/examples_DbtTaskGroup/example_DbtTaskGroup_databricks.py): This dag shows how to use Cosmos with Databricks.
    - [example_DbtTaskGroup_bigquery](dags/basic_examples_per_dwh/examples_DbtTaskGroup/example_DbtTaskGroup_bigquery.py): This dag shows how to use Cosmos with BigQuery.
    - [example_DbtTaskGroup_databricks](dags/basic_examples_per_dwh/examples_DbtTaskGroup/example_DbtTaskGroup_databricks.py): This dag shows how to use Cosmos with Databricks.

- [complex_examples](dags/complex_examples): 2 dags that showcases a more complex example.
    - [customer_360](dags/complex_examples/customer_360.py): This dag shows how to use Cosmos to build a customer 360 view. This dag uses several performance optimizations such as:
        - Using the dbt_manifest load mode.
        - Pre-computing dbt deps
        - Rendering models and their respective tests as a singular node with TestBehavior.BUILD. 
    - [customer_360_snowflake](dags/complex_examples/customer_360_snowflake.py): This dag shows how to use Cosmos to build a customer 360 view with Snowflake. This dag does not use performance optimizations.

- [cosmos_and_dbt_fusion](dags/cosmos_and_dbt_fusion): 1 dag that showcases the integration of Cosmos and dbt Fusion.
    - [example_dbt_fusion](dags/cosmos_and_dbt_fusion/example_dbt_fusion.py): This dag shows how to use Cosmos and dbt Fusion together. This dag uses the `DbtDag` class to render the dbt project.

- [other_examples](dags/other_examples): 2 dags that showcase other examples of how to use Cosmos.


All dbt projects are located in the [dbt](dbt) folder.